KSQL also supports type of windowing we haven't yet learned about.
This is called session windowing.
Session windowing isn't supported in Faust but it is in KSQL.
The way session windowing works is by keeping
track of one last time a particular key was seen.
When a new record with the same key arrives,
the difference between the timestamps is calculated and the time is extended.
If the difference is less than a defined session window,
the new record is added to the existing window
and the window is extended by that size as you can see here.
So the original window was about this large.
When this a event arrived,
we extended it out to here.
When this third event arrived,
we contain to extend our time window.
Otherwise, if the difference is larger than defined session window,
then a new window starter for that session.
If you're familiar with sessions in web analytics,
this is the same general idea but applied to your data streams.
Session windowing is quite useful for analyzing,
understanding engagement and user activity on your website.
So I just want to emphasize the reason that window 1 stopped and window 2
started is because event A occurred outside of the end of the extended session window.
If A had occurred within the context of windows 1,
window 1 would have been extended again.
But it didn't, so a new window was started.
There can be significant gaps between window 1 and window 2.
For example, if window 1 ended here,
we would have had a gap with no window whatsoever
for event A because no records had been received.
Creating a session window is simple.
You simply indicate the session duration.
So here you can see we've defined
a session window and we simply tell it how long we want it to be.
In this case, we're defining a session as 30 minutes long.
What's great about this is,
this is really all there is to it.
This is fairly complex functionality but under the covers,
KSQL manages all the complexity for you.
So it's going to by key managed the window data.